---
title:        "Sneaks"
description:  "They're more than just shoes"
---

I end up talking about sneakers a good amount with my friends, and I often quip that sneakers are legitimately a solid investment as a collectible/commodity. They are highly liquid on various marketplaces, offer direct utility in the form of clout, and have very robust returns. If you're able to score a pair of super limited sneaks, you could ~3x essentially immediately (e.g. Yeezys, collaborations, etc). Get really lucky, and you could 5x+ with relative ease (e.g. Off White's "The Ten" collaboration with Nike). 

The resell market is super fascinating. Similar to how driving a brand new car off the lot would shave off a substantial portion of its value in an instant, even *trying on* a pair of brand new shoes could reduce its value by ~10%. Wear it once on a night out at the movies? Make that 20%. Every crease counts. In the resell game, market timing is everything. Insider information is incredibly valuable. And people often position themselves to make big plays with long-term returns in mind. To illustrate this, I'll offer an anecdote about a relatively recent release: the Nike React Element 87 (in two colorways). The shoes had two releases: one for non-US, and one for US. The shoes, in both colorways, were hyped up for weeks leading up to their initial non-US release in June. The June release happened, they sold out very quickly both online and in-stores, and thus consumers turned their gaze to the July stateside release, expecting to have a better shot securing them then. What happened? They were harder to cop than most thought, and thus minutes after they sold out on major US retailers including Nike, Kith, Bodega, and more, offers jumped ~25% instantaneously. Note: in absolute terms, the shoes retailed for $160, pre-tax. Offers for the less-popular anthracite pair jumped from ~$230 to $300. For the highly-touted sail pair? ~$300 to $400+. Of course, these absolute numbers should be taken with a grain of salt as they differ across various sizes, but as I watched offers and sales on GOAT and StockX, that's what I observed. Thus, if you had an idea as to the stock numbers of these pairs, a profitable move (other than purchasing at retail price) would have been to wait for FOMO buyers to buy up pairs post initial release, wait for prices to settle, and buy them at reasonable prices in anticipation of consumers' desperate offers post second release. Of course, if you don't want to play this sort of cat and mouse game, you could perform a "market buy," sit on them for a while, and sell down the road when brand new pairs (referred to as "DS" or "deadstock") would be harder to come by. 

At this point, I'm glad that there are tech cos in the space to address this specific market, namely GOAT (YC W11) and StockX (Dan Gilbert-backed). I've thought about methods of ensuring legitimate transactions, where the the buyer receives the goods as described/expected, and the seller securely receives the funds, without chargebacks. Currently, outside of using the two mentioned companies, PayPal and banks serve as the financial middleman; if anything goes wrong for either party, file a dispute with PayPal to try to get the situation resolved. An increase in # of bad actors would result in more crap for PayPal/banks to deal with, potentially leading to higher fees (not likely, but possible in an extreme case). At the end of the day, this problem comes down to identity. In the sneaker game, and outside of it as well, reputation is everything. If there were a reliable identity system, bad actors would obviously be incentivized to act correctly, or otherwise suffer from a tarnished reputation and less deal potential in the future.

That was a lot. But this is just the tiniest of glimpses as to how intricate this market, and the reselling phenomenon overall, is. I look forward to writing more about this space soon, as I haven't even touched on the huge roles that software (and SaaS) and arbitrage play in the space. Maybe I'll consider putting together a more comprehensive guide to reselling. We'll see. Stay tuned.